as Henry Ford said when everything seems
to be going against you remember that
the airplane takes off against the wind
not with it the reason this is so
important to understand is that
inevitably there are gonna be times in
your life where it literally seems like
the world is coming after you and in
those moments if rather than panic if
rather than letting your mind run away
from you rather than getting bitter or
angry or frustrated if you remember in
those times that forcing yourself to
push through it forcing yourself to find
the opportunity forcing yourself to find
the lesson in that is going to be the
very thing that gives you lip it's
actually constraints it's having
restrictions it's having difficult times
those are the things that allow people
to really find and tap into the thing
that's going to allow them to achieve
what they want to achieve because it's
going to push you and I know that's
never fun that's not what anybody wants
to hear but the reality is if you want
to achieve something great in your life
you've got to be going into the hard
places you've got to be facing down the
difficult things you've got to be going
down that road that is intrinsically
difficult it's untamed it's wild and in
that in that sense that it's coming
after you in that sense that you've
entered truly hostile territory in that
is the very thing that's going to lift
you up and allow you to do what other
people haven't done that's exactly why
the terrain seems hostile that's exactly
why it seems like things are crashing
down around me because you ventured into
the unknown
but it's only in the unknown that you're
going to be able to find yourself it's
only in the unknown
to be able to accomplish something that
other people think is impossible because
they only think it's impossible because
no one's ever done it and as Tullius
Cicero said whatever you do do with all
your might
so as you go into this wilderness of the
untamed as you venture into this
dangerous territory go like a bat out of
hell go like you've got something to
prove go with the chip on your shoulder
go knowing that you're going to face
danger go knowing that you're going to
have to stand up for yourself and you're
gonna have to fight for what you believe
go knowing that you've got to get
stronger go knowing that right now
you're not the person you need to be in
order to be successful go now knowing
that failure is guaranteed go now
knowing that in that failure you will
learn what
and by being willing to face that
failure and being willing to learn from
that and putting all of your energy into
getting better into taking
responsibility into focusing who you
want to become in looking at only where
you want to go in doing that you get the
lift that you need in order to soar
above what everybody else is willing to
do but you've got to do it with
everything you've got
anything less is guaranteed bill as
Thomas Jefferson said he who knows best
knows just how little he knows this has
been one of the most surreal things
about my experience as an entrepreneur
is that the better I get at it the more
that I do the more I feel lost the more
I feel like there's too much for me to
possibly know and understand and in that
is my power that's literally the source
of my power because I understand that my
journey is one of learning I understand
that as navall Ravi Kant said the
genuine love for reading itself when
cultivated is a superpower the means of
learning are abundant it's the desire to
learn that scarce but if you have that
desire if you cultivate that desire to
learn if you accept that you're in this
big world that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it but in
recognizing that you don't understand it
all and putting yourself on this quest
to learn obsessively to get better to
fall in love with the actual process of
gaining knowledge if you stay hungry for
that at all times and you don't calcify
your thoughts into Dogma but rather stay
fresh stay naive stay hungry and foolish
to really learn and grow then you
actually obtain power and this is the
part I want people to understand look
past the words and hear what I'm really
saying as you take on the knowledge as
you're learning one thing after another
after another those skills have
practical application and it is that
practical application born of understand
how little you really know that allows
you to become far more powerful than the
people that think they know because when
they think they know they stop throwing
and they think they know they tell
supply when they think they know their
thoughts get brittle like bone and break
but when you think you know nothing when
you think you have to learn everything
when you're really just trying to figure
out if something works if it gets you
the result then those skills become real
they become tested by what you're doing
they are boundless because you're always
trying to find that next thing you're
never self-satisfied you're never
self-congratulatory
you're simply asking where do I want to
go what skills do I need to acquire to
get there and knowing that each one of
those that you get brick by brick by
brick builds a real path to where you
want to go so fall in love with the idea
that you know nothing fall in love with
the idea that learning is a superpower
fall in love with that hunger want that
want to get better every day never never
be tricked by the desire to be self
satisfied you never will be tricked by
the desire to be great today never fool
yourself into thinking who you are today
is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around me your future
must always be bigger than your past
and the only way for that to be true is
to love how little you really know and
to love how much you can learn if you
just keep going
as Oprah Winfrey said what you dwell on
is what you become once you understand
that humans are the ultimate adaptation
machine and you understand that the
brain actually builds faster and better
connections between the things that you
think on you will begin to understand
that it is incredibly important to be
thoughtful about what you think about
it's incredibly important to pick a
direction that you want to grow and to
decide who you want to become and then
make that the center of your focus your
thoughts your time your energy and if
you look inward or if you look outward
and you don't like what you see remember
what Jim Rohn said if you don't like how
things are change it you're not a tree
and that's the beauty that's the
beautiful thing about being a human we
are so plastic and we can change so
dramatically we are so good at adapting
that we forget that's literally what we
do but if you can take control of that
process if you can grab ahold of it and
make it your own if you can make it your
daily obsession to make the most of your
potential to pick a very specific
direction to pick an end goal and end
state and end identity and work your way
backwards find out the steps that you're
going to need to take to get there to
execute and have the willingness to put
in the work to have the willingness to
be both the sculptor and the clay to
understand that the suffering that comes
with that of changing yourself of making
yourself into something great
is a suffering well worth it it's a
suffering that you should embrace it's a
suffering that you should run towards
because in that suffering you can become
anything you want so start to dwell on
that dwell on a vision of you being
great dwell on a vision of you
accomplishing your goals dwell on a
vision of you having done this amazing
thing that you want to do dwell on an
image of you being willing to sweat and
bend yourself in half and break if need
to and bleed when necessary to become
the vision of yourself you always knew
you could become dwell on that and
nothing can stop
as epictetus said he is a wise man who
does not grieve for things which he has
not but rejoices for those which he has
and that's gratitude isn't it it's the
very base decision that we all have to
make are you grateful for the things you
have in your life or are you always
wanting more and trust me I get it I
understand people that strive for more I
understand people that want something
bigger and better but at the same time
if you allow yourself to only think
about what you don't have to only be
striving for something more that that
obsession will begin to overtake you it
will begin to corrode you but ultimately
it's a choice ultimately at any time
right now in this moment you can stop
and think about what you have you can
put your attention on the things you're
grateful for and watch what it does
watch what it does in that instance the
way that it changes you the way that it
changes your chemistry your feelings in
a moment can shift from negative and
dark to beautiful with nothing else
changing around you nothing but you
deciding that you're gonna focus on the
things you're grateful for nothing but
deciding that there are things in your
life to be grateful for and that is a
decision no matter what is happening in
your life at any moment right now in the
depths of a depression in something
going on terribly in your life you can
choose right now to think about the
things you're grateful for the breeze
a smile from somebody kind a stranger
who holds open a door for you anything
but it's a choice and as Einstein said
there are only two ways to live your
life
one is as though nothing is a miracle
the other is as though everything is a
miracle and what choice are you making
what are you choosing to focus on right
now do you let gratitude fill you up or
not and here's the critical part and I
want you to listen to this really well
whatever you decide whether you decide
we live in a
of miracles or whether we decide to live
in a world devoid of miracles you were
choosing one thing to the exclusion of
the other and when you focus on
something that you're grateful for when
you look at those little moments in your
life and choose to see them as grand
miracles even when it is only a gentle
hand on your shoulder even then it's
only a kiss from somebody who you kissed
a thousand times before even when it is
only holding the hand of somebody who
needed their hand help even when it's
something that simple
[Music]
it really is a miracle that it really is
something that can fill you it really is
something that will change your
chemistry bring a connection between two
people allow you to see a grander Vista
or even just open a window and look out
at the world and realize that you're
alive that this is all a miracle that
none of this is guaranteed that every
breath you take could be your last and
in that you can choose to cherish what
you have in that you can decide to focus
on that you have a breath to take and
even when it's something that simple
when you train your mind to do that when
you train yourself to decide to see the
beauty in that that nobody can ever take
it away from you and matter where you
are no matter what's going on in your
life you'll be able to rise up and feel
the beauty that is being alive so take a
minute at the worst times in your life
and focus on the things you're grateful
for
I want you to burn into your nervous
system the following statement because
it is a fundamental truth of the human
condition it is literally the base line
physics of what it means to be a person
as Earl Nightingale said we become what
we think about and that's an idea that I
want you to hold firmly in your mind
that's something that I really want you
to internalize I really want you to stop
right now whatever you're doing I want
you to stop lean into this video and
listen to what I'm saying you will
become what you think about really think
about that for a second as if it wasn't
just a phrase as if it's more than just
words as if it were a truth about how
the brain works because it is you're
going to become the thing that you think
about and I know that you're dwelling on
a lot of negative I know that
you're carrying a lot of baggage with
you and I know that as you think about
how things might go wrong that you
believe you believe to the core of your
being that you're just planning for the
hard times but the truth is you're going
to become those things that you fear
you're going to become the things that
you dread if you're thinking about all
the things you've done wrong in the past
you are going to simply continue that
cycle but if on the other hand and let
this be true let this ring in your ears
with the weight of everything that I
carry if I've ever added an ounce of
value to you if anything I have ever
said it seemed remotely true believe
that these are the most important words
I'm ever going to save you if you begin
to focus on
of things if you begin to focus on your
capabilities if you begin to focus on a
potential that you have if you really
dig in build those skills drive towards
something beautiful something amazing
something that leaves you in awe of you
want to create you want to become the
vessel for that then you will you will
become that thing because you will take
those steps because you become what you
think about and as Mark Twain said 20
years from now
you'll be more disappointed by the
things that you didn't do so if you
don't take those steps if you don't
focus on those things if you don't
manifest what you want to become if you
don't believe in it but you don't see
how real it can be if you can't picture
the version of yourself that you want to
become and even though people have told
you that it's not possible for you that
the things you did in the past are never
going to allow you to do that but you're
not smart enough if you let that creep
into your mind and that's what's gonna
happen but if you can see that vision if
you can allow yourself to believe it
then you're going to take the steps that
you need to execute against that and if
you go out there and do those things you
won't regret it but you will regret it
if you don't
so get out right now and build the
person you want to be so you can have
the life you want to have
[Music]
you